Hello and welcome back in the previous tutorial we talked in theory about the cumulative accuracy profile
.
Today we're actually going to practice it.
We're going to build our first cap curve for our model is going to be an exciting tutorial and you will
learn a very important technique that you'll be able to take away and apply in your future work as a
data scientist.
The cap curve is important because it allows you to access models.
It allows you to compare models side by side and choose the best one.
And it also allows you to assess how models deteriorate over time.
All those three are very important elements of the work of a data scientist.
So let's get straight into it.
I've got the data set.
Load it up into Grettel here and I've already created the dummy variables and I've created the derived
log of balance variable.
So actually transformation of ballads and I've actually even prepared the model according to the file
that we've saved so I totally understand that this is not the best way to save models in a text file
.
And tools like other tools like our SPSS SAS and so on they'll definitely allow you to save your model
for future use and I'm sure there's a way to do an Grettel I'm just more familiar with this approach
.
So what we've done here is just basically copied the regressors the same ones that we had in our model
previously we have copied them into the new model that we're going to run just now and I'm going to
run this.
And here you can see is the coefficients we just have to check that they're the same so just check some
random ones.
And then the r squared.
So basically everything is the same.
Good.
We can close this file now.
So the models run.
And now what we need is the prediction we want the probabilities.
So we can build the cap curve in order to get probabilities we we're going to go to analysis for costs
.
We're going to forecast anything we're just running in for the same data.
And there it is.
So that's our exited the actual value of the prediction.
We're going to save this value so the prediction by default it selects the exited hats its name but
that's not exactly correct the correct name is years be had because it's a probability and forwork the
descriptions for cost of exited probability to be completely correct.
Okay.
And we can close that.
We'll leave the model for now.
So here we've got to be had variable and now we want to export it so we'll go to file export data.
We want Roe number there we want exited and we want p hat and that's all we want.
Okay okay.
Now select the folder I'm going to go to All right.
My daughter I'm just going to call it churn modeling for cost save.
OK.
Now we can move away from Grettel and go here.
So there it is generally for cost and not going to bring up Excel and this is where the fund will start
.
Okay.
So we're keeping on rolling into here.
I'm going to zoom in.
First thing that we want to do is right away save it as an excellent X so we don't lose anything like
colors and stuff like that that we're going to be adding.
All right.
Good.
Second thing second most important thing is like I put the filters on.
Now we want to filter by p hat and we were sold by largest to smallest take the filters off.
So why did we do that.
Well because remember that scenario and I'm going to bring up this image because we've been using it
quite a lot remember here what we did is we said for the cap curve and just logically if we have a model
that tells us that these people these people are the most likely to take up the offer because look at
the probability 93 percent chance 92 percent chance if they're the most likely to take up the offer
then we should contact them first so this is as over here in the first batch.
We're going to have the most likely people and as we get further away the likelihood is going to decrease
.
But we want to get the bang for the buck.
So we want to make sure that we reach out to the people that are most interested in this offer.
By the way this is not just a like business focused very mercantile approach that we don't care about
people's feelings.
No in reality.
Like why would you want to reach out to people who don't care about your product or who have other better
things to do.
You want to get to the people who want your product so you're also taking care of the customer it's
a it's a win win for everybody.
So here that's why we've ordered it by probability.
We want to get to these people first.
They are the most likely to take up our offer and they are the most interested in that offer.
So once again where we're trying to create this right now this this is random this and we know how to
do it.
Anybody can do that.
OK.
So let's add some rose then here I'm just going to put stats because we're going to type in some stats
.
First thing we want is we want total exited.
So I want to count how many people exited in total is going to be the sum right of this column over
here or basically of all the ones in this call.
So if I just do some Then I get 2037 people left the bank then total records the school records this
one let's make some space.
This one is going to be count.
And you can count exited or you can count the number of rows so let's count the number of rows and then
we're going to have an exit ratio.
So that is all going back to the Kepcher just now so total exit a divide we're told number records and
I'm going back to the cap curve.
Where is it.
There is so total total exit ratio here 20 percent is remember that 10 percent that we're talking about
in the cap curve that the total number of people that will ever take your offer or in this case the
total of people that will ever leave the bank is 20 percent or that time there was 10 percent.
So here we are going to change this to a percentage so it looks better.
Okay good.
That's that part done.
Now what we want is a few extra columns right.
Maybe let's take out one room.
We'll start off a call for just total select total select.
So if I select people one by one this column will tell me how much I'm selecting So 1 2 3 and so on
.
So if I continue this down as you can see just telling me how many how I selected.
So far if I'm selecting from the top to the bottom I like the 10 of us like to the level of like the
12 and so on.
So here we want a percentage total select percent once this divided by the total records.
Don't forget to press a forward to look at him.
OK.
Let's save it there so as you can see it goes up to 100 percent right.
That that should make total sense total select toll's like percent.
Next we want to.
Well let's call these two columns in a nice soft gray.
OK.
There we go.
The next one is what if we select a random So right now what we want to do is want to build this blue
line.
How can we built this.
Well let's start selecting at random random select right by the way you can copy what I'm doing.
It's a good exercise but I will also give you this template in the next Tauriel I think.
So you'll get this template so don't worry if you're not following what I'm doing on your computer.
Random select what do we want to do.
We want to select at random.
So we're saying this is a number of people that we've selected So if say we select a random 10 people
random five people.
How many of them are going to exit what's like statistically is going to be five times right.
The exit ratio and the exit ratio in.
So we can copy this call there.
Right.
And go to the bottom go to the Topkapi.
And so you can see that 10 people so two will exit if we select if we select 50 people 10 will exit
if we select 100 people 20 will X it should make sense right at the bottom.
Here we have two thousand and three sound because we've got to 100 percent we've selected all of them
.
And so twenty point thirty seven percent have exited a random select and let's do random will random
select percent.
Right so this one is going to be just how many we selected divided by the total number of exited.
Once again we need to lock it in by pressing a 4.
So as you can see is going to come up here like that.
We get to 100 percent.
So let's just go over this one more time random select is out of the people we've selected So if we
select this number of people how many are statistically going to exit.
If we select 100 people how many statistically are going to exit and then random select percent is the
percentage of the total.
So I'm going to call this in a light blue.
And why am I colluding in the blue because the color of this line is blue and that's basically what
we constructed we're saying as we select more people.
Right.
So these gray over here let's move somewhere lower where there is you know whole numbers or even higher
.
There we go somewhere.
Somewhere here I guess.
So this this line this number over here is the bottom line over here or in percentage terms that's the
percentage of 33 percent that's how many we've selected.
And the blue is how many of them actually in this case purchased in our case exit.
So if we select thirty three point seventy four people percent then obviously thirty three point seventy
four of the people that will actually eventually exit will be selected as well because it's a random
selection.
So this number will always be equal to that number.
A random select.
And finally we want to model select.
So if we're ordering by probability how many are we actually getting.
How many of the Xers or turners are we kidding.
Well we need to look at this called exited.
And here we need to add this value.
So I'm just going to copy and as you can see let's go through this a bit.
So if we select 10 people we're going to hit 7 chanters right.
If we're going to you're going to if we select 20 people we're going to hit 14 turners.
And the way you can see it from here is that.
So this person didn't actually leave.
And according to a model we did need to select them so all model made a mistake there.
It's not the best person.
But then this one did leave and we selected him good didn't leave.
So that one did leave did leave did leave did leave and didn't leave.
So that's a zero.
But what we're comparing is this is we're creating a red line here.
So this line is being compared to the random select order here.
So as you can see by the time you get to 10 people the random select has only select two people.
We have already identified seven people correctly.
Right.
If we get to that say we get to 60 people random select only gets 12 people.
We are ready on 39.
So let's bring up the curve again.
So as you can see we are taking off.
We are moving away from the round and the random is going slowly.
It's going in line with the total percent contacted.
So it's just a straight line whereas we are overtaking we're going faster we're finding these people
better.
Our model is performing.
So is there another one hundred.
So here a hundred people were selected.
If we take a random hundred people then of them.
Twenty point thirty seven we'll be lever's.
But if we select these 100 people according to our model then of them 70 we'll have left or we will
select correctly 70 turners.
So that is like more than three times the performance of a random select.
And that is exactly what we're after.
So that's moral select and this is going to be moral select percent.
All right.
Now we want a percentage of the total.
That left Don't forget to lock it in.
This thing I'm doing I'll do it again.
If you're not aware what I'm doing is I'm just copying it I'm going to call him so that I can go to
the bottom of carnival down and then from here I'm going to control shift and then so from here I can
go shift and so like many but if I get consulship it goes to the top and then I just press enter.
So that is the model Slyke percent.
Let's color it in a nice salmon kind of red that are following the here.
OK good.
And now let's take this this and this will format and we'll format it as a percentage.
OK.
So this is how this is the red line.
This is the blue line.
This is the horizontal axis.
And you can see that the red line is by far overtaking the blue line right.
7 So you see how fast this is increasing how slow this is increasing.
I can here and press page down and even faster.
So by the time we've selected 12 percent of random with the model of sector 33 and without further ado
let's introduce the cap curve.
All you have to do from here.
And you can do the same thing in your template so the template will take you up to the stage just like
this.
This and this and then you go to insert up at the top here you select line and you select this first
one.
And there you go.
One thing I will change though is a will change the name of this just to total Whoops not.
Alan.
All right then get rid of this.
We don't need it.
And there is your cap curve.
So that's how you created in Excel and in the next tutorial we will analyze this Kepcher